documents/Design.md, before:

# Reaction Control System (RCS) Software Design

## Overview

The Reaction Control System (RCS) software can be compiled for two distinct
target modes -- flight mode and test mode. Common components to both flight and
test modes include Main, Control, Sensor, and Data Formatter modules.

In flight mode, sensor data is retrieved from the hardware over an I2C bus
using Rust libraries. The control algorithm uses sensor data to
compute any required changes in trajectory and again uses Rust
libraries to assert signals on the hardware GPIO pins to control the rocket
nozzles.

In test mode, the Rust libraries are replaced by a controller/sensor
interface that matches the library interface used in flight mode.
The hardware is replaced by JSBSim to model sensor responses to control inputs.

## Software Components

### _Common Components_
#### Main
The main module is executed at program startup and does the following:

```
PRINT startup information including whether test mode is enabled

INIT Running TO true
INIT struct containing to-be-determined information which will be shared between modules
CALL InitializeSensorModule
CALL InitializeControlModule
INIT variables/class/struct containing means of using high-precision time constructs
     to perform a fixed timestep loop
INIT UDP_Socket connection

WHILE Running EQUAL true
    SET TimeConstruct.CurrentTime TO CALL RustLibraryGetCurrentTime
    INCREMENT TimeConstruct.TimeSinceLastUpdate BY TimeConstruct.CurrentTime
                                                - TimeConstruct.PreviousTime
    SET TimeConstruct.PreviousTime TO TimeConstruct.CurrentTime;
    WHILE TimeConstruct.TimeSinceLastUpdate >= constant_time_step
        IF CALL SensorModuleUpdate with reference to shared memory EQUAL 1 THEN
            PRINT information about error
            SET Running TO false
        ENDIF
        IF CALL ControlModuleUpdate with reference to shared memory EQUAL 1 THEN
            PRINT information about error
            SET Running TO false
        ENDIF
        CALL Data_Formatter::send_packet with reference to shared memory, UDP_Socket EQUAL 1 or 2 THEN
            PRINT information about error
            SET Running TO false
        ENDIF
        INCREMENT TimeConstruct.TimeSinceLastUpdate BY NEGATE constant_time_step;
    ENDWHILE
ENDWHILE

PRINT information about the RCS run
READ wait for user input to terminate program
```

#### Control Module
The control module implements the control algorithm. Sensor data is retrieved from shared memory and GPIO pins are asserted for course correction.

```
FUNCTION init()
    INPUTS: None
    OUTPUTS: Returns 0 -- all is well
                     1 -- something bad happened

    STORE state <- 0 // control state variable

    // initialize gpio pins
    // Use pin 53 as clockwise (CW)
    // Use pin 54 as counter clockwise (CCW)
    // Use pin 0 as emergency stop (ESTOP)
    STORE CW_pin <- CALL libs::gpio::init(CW pin number)
    SET direction of CW pin to DIR_OUT

    STORE CCW_pin <- CALL libs::gpio::init(CCW pin number)
    SET direction of CCW pin to DIR_OUT

    STORE ESTOP_pin <- CALL libs::gpio::init(ESTOP pin number)
    SET direction of ESTOP pin to DIR_IN

    // turn gpio pins off
    Set value of CW pin to 0
    Set value of CCW pin to 0

    RETURN 0 if everything went well, 1 otherwise

END FUNCTION


FUNCTION update(shared memory reference)
    INPUTS: reference to shared memory
    OUTPUTS: Returns 0 -- all is well
                     1 -- Shut Down! (HW asserted the emergency stop pin)

    stop_pin <- CALL ESTOP_pin.get_value()
    IF stop_pin is 1
        RETURN 1
    END IF

    READ gyro_x from shared memory

    IF gyro_x GE 0.175
        CALL state_update(CW pin, gyro_x)
        CALL write_pin(CW pin, shared memory reference)
    ELSE IF gyro_x LE -0.175
        CALL state_update(CCW pin, gyro_x)
        CALL write_pin(CCW pin, shared memory reference)
    ELSE
        // turn off both gpio pins
        SET CW pin state to 0 and CALL write_pin(CW pin, shared memory reference)
        SET CCW pin state to 0 and CALL write_pin(CCW pin, shared memory reference)
    END IF

    RETURN 0
END FUNCTION


FUNCTION state_update(pin, gyro_x)
    INPUTS:  pin -- gpio pin object
             gyro_x -- rotational rate about the x axis
    OUTPUTS: Returns 0 -- all is well
                     1 -- something bad happened

    kp <- 0.25 // proportional gain for duty cycle

    // wish the variables names were more descriptive here, but that's what they
    // are called in Gain_v3.py ... don't want to make any wrong assumptions that
    // make it worse
    a <- 2.0 * kp        // (I/(r*.1s))/Ftot equation to dc from radian error
    u <- a*abs(gyro_x)

    IF u GE 1.0
        state <- 1
    ELSE IF u LT 0.1
        state <- 0
    ELSE
        Toggle the state value
    END IF

    SET the pin's state value to state

    RETURN 0 if everything went well, 1 otherwise

END FUNCTION

FUNCTION write_pin(pin, mem)
    INPUTS:  pin -- gpio pin object
             mem -- reference to shared memory
    OUTPUTS: Returns 0 -- all is well
                     1 -- something bad happened

    CALL pin.set_value(pin's state value)

    STORE the pin's state value in shared memory

    RETURN 0 if everything went well, 1 otherwise

END FUNCTION
```

#### Sensor Module
The sensor module retrieves sensor data and stores it in shared memory.  The sensor module provides:

* An initialization function that receives the location of shared memory and sets up the sensor hardware
* An update function that reads sensor data from hardware and stores it in shared memory

```

FUNCTION init()
    INPUTS: address of shared memory
    OUTPUTS: 0 -- all is well
             1 -- Error

    CALL myi2c <- i2c::init()

ENDFUNCTION


FUNCTION update(sharedMem: &mut SharedMemory)
    INPUTS: address of shared memory
    OUTPUTS: 0 -- all is well
             1 -- Error

    let mut buf = [0u8; (3 + 1 + 3) * 2]  // 3 accel (Registers 3b-40),
                                          // 1 temp (Registers 41-42), 3 gyro (Registers 43-48)

    CALL myi2c.write(0x3b) // 0x3b is the beginning address of the block of registers that we want to read
    CALL myi2c.read(&buf) // puts block (buf.length) of registers in buf (accel, temp, and gyro)

    WRITE buf into Shared Memory

ENDFUNCTION

```

#### Data Formatter
The data formatter gets telemetry data from the control module, transforms it to [psas-packet format](http://psas-packet-serializer.readthedocs.org/), and sends a UDP packet to a server.

```

FUNCTION send_packet(Socket, addr)
    INPUTS: Socket binding, Shared memory address
    OUTPUTS: Returns 0 -- all is well
                     1 -- Empty Shared Memory
                     2 -- PSAS-packet exception: Mismatch for expected data size.
    
    READ GPIO pin states from Shared Memory
    READ Sensor Data from Shared Memory
    
    RETURN 1 if Shared Memory is empty
    
    SET Message type using PSAS-packet API
    SET Data_Package from Shared Memory
    
    RETURN 2 if PSAS-packet API returns an exception
    
    SEND UDP_Packet containing Message type and Data_Package from shared memory
    
    RETURN 0 to indicate successful transmission of packet

END FUNCTION
```

### _Flight Mode Components_
#### Embedded Rust Libraries
During flight mode, the system reads sensor input and dispatches control signals via [I2C](https://github.com/rust-embedded/rust-i2cdev) and [GPIO](https://github.com/rust-embedded/rust-sysfs-gpio) Rust libraries.

```
// gpio File, accessible with gpio::init()
// Import libraries
extern crate sysfs-gpio;
use sysfs_gpio::{Direction, Pin}

FUNCTION init(pin)
   INPUTS: gpio pin number
   OUTPUTS: Linux interface to GPIOs
  
   // embedded linux libraries found here:
   //https://github.com/rust-embedded/rust-sysfs-gpio
   RETURN Pin::new(pin)
END FUNCTION

//i2c File, accessible with i2c::init()
// Import libraries
extern crate i2cdev;
use i2cdev::*;

FUNCTION init()
   INPUTS: none
   OUTPUTS: Returns Linux interface to I2C bus
   
   // embedded linux libraries found here:
   // https://github.com/rust-embedded/rust-i2cdev.git
   Set up the i2c_device hardware // Refer to Jamey code for this
   RETURN LinuxI2CDevice
END FUNCTION
```


### _Test Mode Components_
#### Controller Interface
The controller interface provides a set of functions that are equivalent to
the function calls made by the control module in flight mode. Hardware
compatible data received from the control module is converted to
a compatible format and sent on to JSBSim.

```
use gpio::Direction

struct Pin
{
  value: u8,
}

FUNCTION new(pin_number: u64) -> Option<gpio>
  pin <- INITIALIZE(pin_number)
  RETURN struct if did not fail
END FUNCTION

FUNCTION set_direction(dir: Direction)
  data <- INITIALIZE(dir)
  buffer_to_jsbsim(data)
END FUNCTION

FUNCTION set_value(value: u8) -> Option<()>
  SET pin_value TO value of 1 or 0
  data <- INITIALIZE(pin_value)
  buffer_to_jsbsim(data)
  RETURN okay if try did not fail
END FUNCTION

FUNCTION get_value() -> Option<u8>
  data = buffer_from_jsbsim()
  pin <- (data)
  IF pin is ESTOP RETURN 0
  RETURN pin.value
END FUNCTION

}

```

#### Sensor Interface
The sensor interface provides a set of functions that are equivalent to the
function calls made by the sensor module in flight mode. JSBSim sensor data
is retrieved, converted into a hardware compatible format, and made available
to the sensor module.

```
FUNCTION new()
  INITIALIZE gyro(gyro_ADXL345B)
  INITIALIZE accel(accel_L3G4200D)
  INITIALIZE JSBsim
  RETURN okay if try did not fail
END FUNCTION

FUNCTION read(address: u8) -> Option<u16>
  accel, gyro <- buffer_from_jsbsim()
  data <- Convert to MPU-6050 format {accel, gyro}
  return data
END FUNCTION

FUNCTION write(address: u8) -> Option<u16>
  data <- INITIALIZE 
  buffer_to_jsbsim(data)
  RETURN okay if try did not fail
END FUNCTION

```

#### JSBSim
JSBSim is commercial off the shelf (COTS) software that is used to
simulate sensor outputs based on control inputs.

```
INPUT:  sim_actuator_output     
OUTPUT: sim_sensor_output


///this function initializes the JSBSim Binder
FUNCTION INITIALIZE
     //set up data buffers
     SET buffer_to_jsbsim                   //data in csv format    
     SET buffer_from_jsbsim                   //data in csv format

     //set up jsbsim
     INIT jsbsim exec
     INSTANTIATE fgfdmexec
     INSTANTIATE script object
     LOAD script into script object
     RUN startup loop (empty)
     PAUSE until ready to launch
     SET rocket launch
ENDFUNCTION


///this is the primary work loop
FUNCTION LOOPDATA (sim_actuator_output):
     IF (testing)
          GET actuator response from sim_actuator_output
          PARSE actuator response into buffer_to_jsbsim //collapse structured data into csv
          SEND buffer_to_jsbsim to jsbsim

          IF (script)
        RUN script object’s runscript()           //will need to know how data is to be blended
        RUN fgfdmexec’s run method                // … between script & sim actuator output
          ENDIF

          PUT data from jsbsim into buffer_from_jsbsim      //structure csv data
          PARSE buffer_from_jsbsim
          SET data into sim_sensor_input
     ENDIF
ENDFUNCTION

///this function closes out the JSBSim Binder
FUNCTION TERMINATE:
     CLOSE buffer_to_jsbsim       
     CLOSE jsbsim output
     CLOSE jsbsim
     CLOSE buffer_from_jsbsim
ENDFUNCTION
```

Commit message:

update the pseudocode for jsbsim binder

documents/Design.md, after:

# Reaction Control System (RCS) Software Design

## Overview

The Reaction Control System (RCS) software can be compiled for two distinct
target modes -- flight mode and test mode. Common components to both flight and
test modes include Main, Control, Sensor, and Data Formatter modules.

In flight mode, sensor data is retrieved from the hardware over an I2C bus
using Rust libraries. The control algorithm uses sensor data to
compute any required changes in trajectory and again uses Rust
libraries to assert signals on the hardware GPIO pins to control the rocket
nozzles.

In test mode, the Rust libraries are replaced by a controller/sensor
interface that matches the library interface used in flight mode.
The hardware is replaced by JSBSim to model sensor responses to control inputs.

## Software Components

### _Common Components_
#### Main
The main module is executed at program startup and does the following:

```
PRINT startup information including whether test mode is enabled

INIT Running TO true
INIT struct containing to-be-determined information which will be shared between modules
CALL InitializeSensorModule
CALL InitializeControlModule
INIT variables/class/struct containing means of using high-precision time constructs
     to perform a fixed timestep loop
INIT UDP_Socket connection

WHILE Running EQUAL true
    SET TimeConstruct.CurrentTime TO CALL RustLibraryGetCurrentTime
    INCREMENT TimeConstruct.TimeSinceLastUpdate BY TimeConstruct.CurrentTime
                                                - TimeConstruct.PreviousTime
    SET TimeConstruct.PreviousTime TO TimeConstruct.CurrentTime;
    WHILE TimeConstruct.TimeSinceLastUpdate >= constant_time_step
        IF CALL SensorModuleUpdate with reference to shared memory EQUAL 1 THEN
            PRINT information about error
            SET Running TO false
        ENDIF
        IF CALL ControlModuleUpdate with reference to shared memory EQUAL 1 THEN
            PRINT information about error
            SET Running TO false
        ENDIF
        CALL Data_Formatter::send_packet with reference to shared memory, UDP_Socket EQUAL 1 or 2 THEN
            PRINT information about error
            SET Running TO false
        ENDIF
        INCREMENT TimeConstruct.TimeSinceLastUpdate BY NEGATE constant_time_step;
    ENDWHILE
ENDWHILE

PRINT information about the RCS run
READ wait for user input to terminate program
```

#### Control Module
The control module implements the control algorithm. Sensor data is retrieved from shared memory and GPIO pins are asserted for course correction.

```
FUNCTION init()
    INPUTS: None
    OUTPUTS: Returns 0 -- all is well
                     1 -- something bad happened

    STORE state <- 0 // control state variable

    // initialize gpio pins
    // Use pin 53 as clockwise (CW)
    // Use pin 54 as counter clockwise (CCW)
    // Use pin 0 as emergency stop (ESTOP)
    STORE CW_pin <- CALL libs::gpio::init(CW pin number)
    SET direction of CW pin to DIR_OUT

    STORE CCW_pin <- CALL libs::gpio::init(CCW pin number)
    SET direction of CCW pin to DIR_OUT

    STORE ESTOP_pin <- CALL libs::gpio::init(ESTOP pin number)
    SET direction of ESTOP pin to DIR_IN

    // turn gpio pins off
    Set value of CW pin to 0
    Set value of CCW pin to 0

    RETURN 0 if everything went well, 1 otherwise

END FUNCTION


FUNCTION update(shared memory reference)
    INPUTS: reference to shared memory
    OUTPUTS: Returns 0 -- all is well
                     1 -- Shut Down! (HW asserted the emergency stop pin)

    stop_pin <- CALL ESTOP_pin.get_value()
    IF stop_pin is 1
        RETURN 1
    END IF

    READ gyro_x from shared memory

    IF gyro_x GE 0.175
        CALL state_update(CW pin, gyro_x)
        CALL write_pin(CW pin, shared memory reference)
    ELSE IF gyro_x LE -0.175
        CALL state_update(CCW pin, gyro_x)
        CALL write_pin(CCW pin, shared memory reference)
    ELSE
        // turn off both gpio pins
        SET CW pin state to 0 and CALL write_pin(CW pin, shared memory reference)
        SET CCW pin state to 0 and CALL write_pin(CCW pin, shared memory reference)
    END IF

    RETURN 0
END FUNCTION


FUNCTION state_update(pin, gyro_x)
    INPUTS:  pin -- gpio pin object
             gyro_x -- rotational rate about the x axis
    OUTPUTS: Returns 0 -- all is well
                     1 -- something bad happened

    kp <- 0.25 // proportional gain for duty cycle

    // wish the variables names were more descriptive here, but that's what they
    // are called in Gain_v3.py ... don't want to make any wrong assumptions that
    // make it worse
    a <- 2.0 * kp        // (I/(r*.1s))/Ftot equation to dc from radian error
    u <- a*abs(gyro_x)

    IF u GE 1.0
        state <- 1
    ELSE IF u LT 0.1
        state <- 0
    ELSE
        Toggle the state value
    END IF

    SET the pin's state value to state

    RETURN 0 if everything went well, 1 otherwise

END FUNCTION

FUNCTION write_pin(pin, mem)
    INPUTS:  pin -- gpio pin object
             mem -- reference to shared memory
    OUTPUTS: Returns 0 -- all is well
                     1 -- something bad happened

    CALL pin.set_value(pin's state value)

    STORE the pin's state value in shared memory

    RETURN 0 if everything went well, 1 otherwise

END FUNCTION
```

#### Sensor Module
The sensor module retrieves sensor data and stores it in shared memory.  The sensor module provides:

* An initialization function that receives the location of shared memory and sets up the sensor hardware
* An update function that reads sensor data from hardware and stores it in shared memory

```

FUNCTION init()
    INPUTS: address of shared memory
    OUTPUTS: 0 -- all is well
             1 -- Error

    CALL myi2c <- i2c::init()

ENDFUNCTION


FUNCTION update(sharedMem: &mut SharedMemory)
    INPUTS: address of shared memory
    OUTPUTS: 0 -- all is well
             1 -- Error

    let mut buf = [0u8; (3 + 1 + 3) * 2]  // 3 accel (Registers 3b-40),
                                          // 1 temp (Registers 41-42), 3 gyro (Registers 43-48)

    CALL myi2c.write(0x3b) // 0x3b is the beginning address of the block of registers that we want to read
    CALL myi2c.read(&buf) // puts block (buf.length) of registers in buf (accel, temp, and gyro)

    WRITE buf into Shared Memory

ENDFUNCTION

```

#### Data Formatter
The data formatter gets telemetry data from the control module, transforms it to [psas-packet format](http://psas-packet-serializer.readthedocs.org/), and sends a UDP packet to a server.

```

FUNCTION send_packet(Socket, addr)
    INPUTS: Socket binding, Shared memory address
    OUTPUTS: Returns 0 -- all is well
                     1 -- Empty Shared Memory
                     2 -- PSAS-packet exception: Mismatch for expected data size.
    
    READ GPIO pin states from Shared Memory
    READ Sensor Data from Shared Memory
    
    RETURN 1 if Shared Memory is empty
    
    SET Message type using PSAS-packet API
    SET Data_Package from Shared Memory
    
    RETURN 2 if PSAS-packet API returns an exception
    
    SEND UDP_Packet containing Message type and Data_Package from shared memory
    
    RETURN 0 to indicate successful transmission of packet

END FUNCTION
```

### _Flight Mode Components_
#### Embedded Rust Libraries
During flight mode, the system reads sensor input and dispatches control signals via [I2C](https://github.com/rust-embedded/rust-i2cdev) and [GPIO](https://github.com/rust-embedded/rust-sysfs-gpio) Rust libraries.

```
// gpio File, accessible with gpio::init()
// Import libraries
extern crate sysfs-gpio;
use sysfs_gpio::{Direction, Pin}

FUNCTION init(pin)
   INPUTS: gpio pin number
   OUTPUTS: Linux interface to GPIOs
  
   // embedded linux libraries found here:
   //https://github.com/rust-embedded/rust-sysfs-gpio
   RETURN Pin::new(pin)
END FUNCTION

//i2c File, accessible with i2c::init()
// Import libraries
extern crate i2cdev;
use i2cdev::*;

FUNCTION init()
   INPUTS: none
   OUTPUTS: Returns Linux interface to I2C bus
   
   // embedded linux libraries found here:
   // https://github.com/rust-embedded/rust-i2cdev.git
   Set up the i2c_device hardware // Refer to Jamey code for this
   RETURN LinuxI2CDevice
END FUNCTION
```


### _Test Mode Components_
#### Controller Interface
The controller interface provides a set of functions that are equivalent to
the function calls made by the control module in flight mode. Hardware
compatible data received from the control module is converted to
a compatible format and sent on to JSBSim.

```
use gpio::Direction

struct Pin
{
  value: u8,
}

FUNCTION new(pin_number: u64) -> Option<gpio>
  pin <- INITIALIZE(pin_number)
  RETURN struct if did not fail
END FUNCTION

FUNCTION set_direction(dir: Direction)
  data <- INITIALIZE(dir)
  buffer_to_jsbsim(data)
END FUNCTION

FUNCTION set_value(value: u8) -> Option<()>
  SET pin_value TO value of 1 or 0
  data <- INITIALIZE(pin_value)
  buffer_to_jsbsim(data)
  RETURN okay if try did not fail
END FUNCTION

FUNCTION get_value() -> Option<u8>
  data = buffer_from_jsbsim()
  pin <- (data)
  IF pin is ESTOP RETURN 0
  RETURN pin.value
END FUNCTION

}

```

#### Sensor Interface
The sensor interface provides a set of functions that are equivalent to the
function calls made by the sensor module in flight mode. JSBSim sensor data
is retrieved, converted into a hardware compatible format, and made available
to the sensor module.

```
FUNCTION new()
  INITIALIZE gyro(gyro_ADXL345B)
  INITIALIZE accel(accel_L3G4200D)
  INITIALIZE JSBsim
  RETURN okay if try did not fail
END FUNCTION

FUNCTION read(address: u8) -> Option<u16>
  accel, gyro <- buffer_from_jsbsim()
  data <- Convert to MPU-6050 format {accel, gyro}
  return data
END FUNCTION

FUNCTION write(address: u8) -> Option<u16>
  data <- INITIALIZE 
  buffer_to_jsbsim(data)
  RETURN okay if try did not fail
END FUNCTION

```

#### JSBSim
JSBSim is an open source C++ library.  It is used to simulate sensor outputs based on control inputs for flight simulations.

```
INPUT:  binder_input                        //data from controller interface::write to binder
OUTPUT: binder_output                       //data to sensor interface::get value from binder

///this function initializes the JSBSim Binder
FUNCTION INITIALIZE
     //set up data buffers
     SET buffer_to_jsbsim                   //data in csv format    
     SET buffer_from_jsbsim                 //data in csv format
     SET binder_output                      //data in struct format

     //set up jsbsim
     INIT jsbsim exec
     INSTANTIATE fgfdmexec
     INSTANTIATE script object
     LOAD script into script object
     RUN startup loop (empty)
     PAUSE until ready to launch
     SET rocket launch
ENDFUNCTION

///this is the primary work loop
FUNCTION LOOPDATA (binder_input):
     GET data from binder_input
     PARSE data to buffer_to_jsbsim                    //collapse structured data into csv

     SEND buffer_to_jsbsim to jsbsim                   //binder.rs -> wrapper.c -> jsbsim
     RUN script object’s runscript()                   //will need to know how data is to be blended
     RUN fgfdmexec’s run method                        // … between script & binder_input
     PUT jsbsim output into buffer_from_jsbsim         //jsbsim -> wrapper.c -> binder.rs
     
     PARSE buffer_from_jsbsim                          //csv to structured data
     SET data into binder_output
     CALL sensor interface                             //?verify
ENDFUNCTION

///this function closes out the JSBSim Binder
FUNCTION TERMINATE:
     CLOSE binder_input       
     CLOSE buffer_to_jsbsim
     CLOSE jsbsim
     CLOSE buffer_from_jsbsim
     CLOSE binder_output
ENDFUNCTION
```
